Course outline

Nano-course of 6 weeks (if needed more). 
Pass/Fail course. 

Course philosophy: 
The idea is for the course to be a friendly, fun and exciting entry point for gaining confidence in data analysis and the application for statistical tools and packages. 
We would like to give the Immunology PhD students some basis of the statistics behind any data-analysis procedure / package.
We will construct the course such that students could either expand their statistical / computational knowledge (via e.g. optional HW questions) or just get some basic grasp of the most prevalent statistical concepts if they prefer. 

Lectures: 
1.5 hours lecture followed by Q&A, once a week. 

R workshops: 
1.5-2 hours weekly, by Alos

TAs to support for R workshops an homework questions. 


Lecture 1 - fundamentals of statistical analysis

— Law of large numbers
— Central Limit Theorem

Hypothesis testing discussion:
	— steps for testing statistic. (Can add: parametric and non-parametric)
	— type I and type II errors. 
	— power computation. 
	— the p-value

Confidence interval:
	

Lecture 2 - fundamentals of statistical analysis 

Different tests to infer the mean. 
	— t-test (parametric)
	— Wilcox (non-parametric)

* 2-sample tests, testing for the mean. 

* experiment design

* multiple testing. 
	— corrections for multiple testing - bonferroni, Benjamini Hochberg. 


Lecture 3 - Modeling .  

Data transformation (to make it e.g. gaussian) 
	— can’t say something about the original data, but can say about the transformed data. 
	
Multivariate data
	— methods for visualizing

Correlation and covariance

Linear regression
	— parameter estimation by least squares
	— hypothesis testing
	— coefficient of determination
	— checking the assumptions

Training and testing sets. 
	— discuss overfitting. 


Lecture 4 - Modeling and dimensionality reduction:

ANOVA
	— forward / backward selection
	
Covariate interactions

Mixed effect models

PCA
	— three equivalent definitions
	— above average variance to keep PCs. 

Just introduce and get a sense for: tSNE, UMAP, Diffusion components and pseudotime. 


Lecture 5 - Classification: 

Discriminant analysis - classification. 

Quality of classification

Logistic regression

Classification trees
	— Overfitting
	— Impurity measures

Random forests

Cluster analysis

Hierarchical clustering

Lecture 6 – Topics of interest: 

E.g. Deep learning or anything else. 
